Setting and using environment variables

To help us with this task, we'll use a very convenient feature of Pydantic: settings
management. This allows us to structure and use our configuration variables as we do
for any other data model. It even takes care of automatically retrieving the values from
environment variables!

To structure a settings model, all you need to do is create a class that inherits from
pydantic.BaseSettings. The following example shows a configuration class
with a debug flag, an environment name, and a database URL

As you can see, creating this class is very similar to creating a standard Pydantic model. We
can even define default values, as we did for debug here. The good thing with this model is
that it works just like any other Pydantic model: it automatically parses the values it finds in
environment variables and raises an error if one value is missing in your environment. This
way, you can ensure you don't forget any values directly when the app starts.

Using a .env file

In local development, it's a bit annoying to set environment variables by hand, especially
if you're working on several projects at the same time on your machine. To solve this,
Pydantic allows you to read the values from a .env file. This file contains a simple
list of environment variables and their associated values. It's usually easier to edit and
manipulate during development.
To make this work, we'll need a new library, python-dotenv, whose task is to parse
those .env files. You can install it as usual with the following command:

pip install python-dotenv


Adding Gunicorn as a server process for deployment

In the WSGI world, the most widely used server is Gunicorn. It has the same role in the
context of a Django or Flask application. Why are we talking about it, then? Gunicorn
has lots of refinements and features that make it more robust and reliable in production
than Uvicorn. However, Gunicorn is designed to work for WSGI applications. So, what
can we do?
Actually, we can use both: Gunicorn will be used as a robust process manager for our
production server. However, we'll specify a special worker class provided by Uvicorn,
which will allow us to run ASGI applications such as FastAPI. This is the recommended
way of doing deployments in the official Uvicorn documentation: https://www.
uvicorn.org/deployment/#using-a-process-manager

pip install gunicorn

gunicorn -w 4 -k uvicorn.workers.UvicornWorker app.app:app

Its usage is quite similar to Uvicorn, except that we tell it to use a Uvicorn worker.
Once again, this is necessary to make it work with an ASGI application. Also, notice the
-w option. It allows us to set the number of workers to launch for our server. Here, we
launch four instances of our application. Then, Gunicorn takes care of load balancing the
incoming requests between each worker. This is what makes Gunicorn more robust: if, for
any reason, your application blocks the event loop with a synchronous operation, other
workers will be able to process other requests while this is happening.


Writing a Dockerfile

contenido del dockerfile:

FROM tiangolo/uvicorn-gunicorn-fastapi:python3.7
ENV APP_MODULE app.app:app
COPY requirements.txt /app
RUN pip install --upgrade pip && \
    pip install -r /app/requirements.txt
COPY ./ /app

Then, we set the APP_MODULE environment variable thanks to the ENV instruction.
In a Docker image, environment variables can be set at build time, as we did here, or at
runtime. APP_MODULE is an environment variable defined by the base image. It should
point to the path of your FastAPI application: it's the same argument that we set at the end
of Uvicorn and Gunicorn commands to launch the application. You can find the list of all
the accepted environment variables for the base image in the official README

Next, we have our first COPY statement. As you may have guessed, this instruction
will copy a file from your local system to the image. Here, we only copied our
requirements.txt file. We'll explain why shortly. Notice that we copied the file into the
/app directory of the image; it's the main working directory defined by the base image.
We then have a RUN statement. This instruction is used to execute Unix commands. In our
case, we ran pip to install our dependencies, following the requirements.txt file we
just copied. This is essential to make sure all our Python dependencies are present.
Finally, we copied the rest of our source code files into the /app directory. Now, let's
explain why we separately copied requirements.txt. The important thing to
understand is that Docker images are built using layers: each instruction will create a new
layer in the build system. To improve performance, Docker does its best to reuse layers it
has already built. Therefore, if it detects no changes from the previous build, it'll reuse the
ones it has in memory without rebuilding them.

By copying the requirements.txt file alone and installing the Python dependencies
before the rest of the source code, we allow Docker to reuse the layer where the
dependencies have been installed. If we edit our source code but not requirements.
txt, the Docker build will only execute the last COPY instruction, reusing all the previous
layers. Thus, the image is built in a few seconds instead of minutes.

Most of the time, Dockerfiles end with a CMD instruction, which should be the command
to execute when the container is started. In our case, we would have used the Gunicorn
command we saw in the Adding Gunicorn as a server section. However, in our case, the
base image is already handling this for us.

Building a Docker image

docker build -t fastapi-app .

The dot (.) denotes the path of the root context to build your image – in this case, the
current directory. The -t option is here to tag the image and give it a practical name


